 fickle, takes action, by using digital zoom,pper, state program jungles, and that sees the process along with X and X series of critics. That's kind of the value that stitches in the whole point usВотx and SD will be protected otherwise. Okay, I think we can start. So welcome everyone to the eighth lecture of linear control design one. How are you? How are we doing? All good? Very good. So today I would say with some confidence it's probably the most important lecture of the class. And that's because we will be doing systematic control design and we will lay the foundations for the designs that will be revisiting for the entire rest of the lecture. So we will talk about PILD design. PILD design as you will see it is a variation of what we mentioned at the very first lecture as PID design. And you will understand why we have to replace this differential part with what it sounds very cryptic but it's not and it's called lead part. So for the time being you should consider this lead part is just a variation and modification of this differential part of the PID controller. So we will find out how we will be designing proportional integral and differential controllers for a given system with a known transfer function. And we will see how can evaluate our design against some specifications. The next lecture those specifications will be very, very engineering. This will be specifications that also our project manager or our client will understand. I want the system to be fast. I want the system to be accurate. I want the system not to overshoot. What's next lecture? This lecture the specifications will be more control theoretic. And we will be talking about I want to have this phase margin and we will understand whether it is good or bad. But of course the client will not. So what's in for today? We will have a super fast recap of the proportional control design. And I'm saying recap because we've seen that before. We have at least in two lectures we've seen how to design P controllers. Today we will put it in a more generalized framework and then we will expand from there by adding an integral part to have a PID controller. And if needed to add a differential part to have a PID controller. Needless to say that the methods that we will say today, if you really want to have a pure differential part in your PID controller, you can still apply those methods. But we will talk about why it's better most of the time to have a lead part instead of the P part. Before we move on, is there some question from the previous lecture we would like to discuss? We can be a bit more relaxed for the time being about the Nyquist plots because this will not annoy us until lecture 10 where we're going to talk about unstable systems. But in general, if you have any question regarding basic concepts like frequency domain, margins, bullet holes and so on, feel free to ask. Should I assume that we are having some sort of comfort with these kinds of terms? Because we will be using them. Okay. So let's start from the absolute basics. What we will be using as benchmark for block diagram is what you see here on the dashboard. We'll have the transfer function of the system. So we assume that somebody did some experiments with our robot, with our motors collected input and output data, made some system identification like some transfer function feeding and came up with a transfer function. And for the time being, we will assume that this transfer function is also open loop stable. So if we take the pulse of this transfer function, they will all be on the left half plane. At the very worst, we might have one single pole at the origin like a pure integrator, but nothing more than that. Then we will take the feedback from the output, we will compare it to the reference, we will calculate the error, and this error will pass through a controller. And we will have three variations for the day. Just proportional, proportional integral, and proportional integral differential, aka the lead part. And all of this will fit here. Yes? Okay. Now, just to remember a bit, if I have a closed loop like here, and I want to calculate the loop or open loop transfer function, what would that be? So if I just make, if I called my controller, k of s, that's the transfer function of my controller, what would be the loop transfer function here? So this is a closed loop transfer function. I wanted the thing that you add to the one in the denominator, that's the loop transfer function. So what is that here? k times g, right? And just to remember, if I want to calculate the open loop or just loop transfer function, I start from this summation where my loop closes and go all the way around the loop and multiply whatever I have. So this loop transfer function, GOL, you can call it whatever you want it. Here is going to be just k times g. Yes? And the closed loop transfer function will be the forward branch, which in our case is the same as the loop, so k of s times g of s, over one plus the GOL, which is exactly the same. So far, so good. Do we remember that? Yes. OK. So the loop transfer function is just going around the loop and the closed loop transfer function is forward, which means I start from the reference and I just make a straight line all the way to the output. That's my forward branch. Over one plus the loop transfer function. OK. So as we will see later on in other lectures, we might have more inputs than one. And if we have more inputs than one, that means that we will have more transfer functions to play with in our design. Because transfer function is just a pair between an input and an output. So if we have two inputs and one output, we will have two pairs and therefore two transfer functions. So far, we only talk about only one transfer function and that's between the reference and the output or maybe the input and the output and so on. If I wanted to find the transfer function from the reference to the error, what would that transfer function be? From the reference to the error. The reference is one input, the error is one output. How do I calculate transfer functions between an input and an output? Same way we do here. Here is from the reference to the output y. I want from the reference to e. What would that be? It must be the same formula, right? Forward over one plus loop. What's the forward branch here from r to e? What do you think? Sorry? Minus y? Minus y. Well, we don't want y's because the transfer function doesn't have signals in it. It's only the ratios, right? So y minus. Sorry? But we don't calculate the feedback. We just want the forward branch. So I just take a line from r to e and I don't find anything in between. We just find the same wire, right? It's just one. So the transfer function from, let's write it here. So that is the error over my reference. It is forward branch, which is just one. And then one plus the loop. What's the loop? Exactly. But do I notice here that the denominator in both cases is the same. And this should not surprise us because we're talking about the same closed loop system, right? It doesn't matter which particular relation enclosed loop I'm looking. The thing that defines the closed loop, which is the denominator, must be the same because it's one single loop in the system. And obviously, the stability properties of our closed loop are captured by the denominator. And you can't have different stability if you just look the system from different inputs, right? You must have the same stability, the same kind of pulse. So in a system where you have multiple inputs and you can look the mappings between inputs and outputs in different configurations, you must have enclosed loop the same pulse. Think of that if we pull some question in the exam and tell you, here's a closed loop transfer function, which of those are the error transfer functions, exclude those ones that have different pulse. Because in the same system in the closed loop, we must have exactly the same stability properties. It doesn't matter which input we are looking at. The forward runs, you should associate it to the particular input and output pair, where the one plus the loop transfer function, the denominator, is associated with the stability of the system itself. It makes sense because that's what we look to calculate the pulse enclosed loop. Questions? Yes? So if you want the transfer function from the error to you, right? Includes loop, yes. You must have that. So any questions? Okay, great. We're doing good. So just like a small teaser of what we're going to be doing today, we will use the concept of phase margin. For us today, the phase margin is that specification based on which we will design controllers. And what we will always try to do is the following. We will try to find some crossover frequency of our total open loop system. So I plugged my controller and I calculated the loop, just the loop, this GOL, right? And I will try to fit this transfer function to look something good in my bodyplode. And something good in my bodyplode, which we will discuss in details, has to do also with what phase margin I have. As we've seen that if you have good phase margin, once you close the loop, you are guaranteed to have both stability and robustness. That's something we would like to achieve. Until we go there and discuss that particular thing, so let's see what happens if we have the simplest controller in our system. And the simplest controller is nothing else than just again. And we call this guy a peak controller, yes. So if we want to make it a bit more specific here, right, the open loop is going to be Kp times g of s. And the closed loop is going to be Kp g of s, 1 over 1 plus Kp g of s. And what will be my error transfer function? My error transfer function is going to be 1 over 1 plus Kp times g of s. Are colleagues at the back? Can you see, can you read what I'm writing? Or should I write this? OK, do we agree? I just substituted what Ks is. Ks is just a gain. That's a proportional controller. Yeah? There is another way, if you want to very fast calculate the transfer function of the error, you could just say that it's like 1 minus the closed loop transfer function. You can say that the error is what is the reference minus y. But y is g closed loop times the reference. So this is 1 minus closed loop times the reference. And therefore, e over the reference, which is exactly what the transfer function from the reference to the error is, is 1 minus closed loop transfer function. And you will arrive exactly in the same kind of calculation. So far, so good. Any questions? All right. So what happens when we put a peak controller? Well, in all cases, we will do a body plot. We will do a body plot of our original system transfer function, just to have it because it's going to be very handy. And we will be doing body plots of the resulting open loop transfer function once we put a controller. And let's say that we select a controller of gain 2. Let's say Kp equals 2. And then if I plot the body for Kp times g, 2 times g, what would I say compared to the original plot? If my original plot, I'm just putting the magnitude for the time being. It was something, let's say that this is like the 0 dB line. Let's say that we had something like that. That's the original plot. If I plot 2 times g, what would expect to see on that? Yes? It will be upwards, right? It will be something like that. And that's 2 times g, yeah? And how up it will move? What would be the distance here? 2 times path in dB, right? So this will be 2, but in dB. Obviously. Good. So what's going on here? So I move the plot upwards. The phase doesn't change with just multiplying stuff in our transfer function. We've seen that. So effectively, I just move the crossover frequency. That's the omega crossover old towards here. That's the omega crossover nu. And we said in the previous lecture that you can do it up to some degree, but then you cannot do it as much as you want, because you risk going and sitting on top of this omega p frequency, where we have complete reversal of the phase. And that's where the stability kicks in. So we know that increasing the gain of our controller will give us probably larger gains and more powerful controllers and more powerful responses, but also will decrease our phase margin because we're moving our crossover frequency more and more and more to the right. And because the physical systems have the tendency to decrease their phase in lower, in higher frequencies, the more we move to higher frequencies, the less phase margin will have and it will be less robust. Okay. So when it comes to the performance of the system now, if I had closed the loop only with my transfer function, with proportional gain 1, I would have this error. If I put two times here, will I have smaller or larger error? Smaller error, right. And if I put 10, Kp will stand even smaller, which also takes out because more controller, more aggressive fluctuations in my system, more powerful fluctuations, so therefore less error I expect. So what will you see happen if you have, let's say, a fairly stable system and then you start cranking up the controller gain, you will see that in steady state, especially in steady state, you will have less and less and less error, but probably you will start seeing more escalations. And more escalation means lesser busness and this also takes out because we said that the more you increase the error, the less phase margin you have. So therefore you will expect to see, you know, less reliable behavior of your system. And then it's also a matter of trade off, how much do I pump up my gain, how much error I could tolerate versus how much of busness I want into my system. So the thing here is now to decide how much error we want or how much gain we should put. So far so good, does this make sense? Yes, good. So if I wanted to calculate the steady state error, what would I do? If I want to calculate the steady state response of a transfer function, what theorem do I use? Do you remember? We use the final value theorem and you've seen it in two or three lectures before when you introduce the transfer functions. And this theorem says that if I have a transfer function, and I want to calculate the response of my output, the response of my system, to a unit step change in my input in steady state. Obviously we have to have a stable system otherwise we're not going to have any steady state to begin with. Then what I will do is that so the limit of my response as t goes to infinity will be the limit of s times my transfer function times 1 over s. This is the Laplace transform of my step response of my unit step response. Because s goes to 0, obviously because s goes to 0 means 0 frequency which means steady state. And this will be, obviously this will cancel out, this will only be take your transfer function and put s equals 0. Yes? Do you remember that one? Good. So I'll do that for my error. That's my error here. So what would be my steady state error? By the way, the steady state we call it also stationary, also static. So if you hear stationary error, static error, we mean the steady state error which means the error as the frequency is 0. So this guy here will be the limit of my g, oops, s times g e as s goes to 0, 1 over s. And that means that if I make a step change to my reference of unit size, what would be the error that I would be expecting? And this will give you that it is g e at s equals 0. And what is this guy here? It's going to be 1 over 1 plus k p times whatever my original transfer function is at 0 frequency. And that's why I say if you don't have a stable system, then you will not have a finite, a defined g of 0. So therefore you can't expect to have also a defined and finite error. But if you have a stable system, and that's for example, that's the plot of a stable system. We have a flat line in the 0 dB, in the 0 frequency. Then you will have something which is maybe small, maybe large, but definitely not 0. If I want to make the error go to 0, I have to put what I have to put infinite gain. I have to put my controller into infinity. And that's something we don't want. First of all, because we don't want to have unlimited actuations. All our actuators have limits, physical limits. There's an x amount of voltage that you can put in a motor. There's an x amount of fuel that you can put in your engine and so on. And on the other hand, from control theory perspective, we know that the more the gain increases, the less robust our system is because of this phase margin thing. So proportional controller, if you have a stable system, right, a properly stable system, you can forget about your zero error. So proportional controller can give you smaller, but not zero. You'll have to have other stuff in your system to make it zero. Questions? Yes? Okay. So, the E over on C into 1 minus, this is like multiply on C, like, by the E, Z, that with that, my GOS will get on the wire, which does make sense to you. It makes sense to me, sorry. So first of all, we should remember that this is the closed-loop transfer function, right? I'm talking here about the open-loop transfer function, the original transfer function. But in general, if you have a transfer function that reacts quite strongly to any inputs you have, it makes sense that you will require smaller controller gain for the same error. And if your system is deaf, so the static value, the steady state value of your transfer function is so small, you really need to, even small errors, you need to put a lot of control action. Yeah? Let me reiterate again. Are you looking here or here? I'm going to put you on the second line of TMS here. Yes, here. We're going to be taking to predict the security to get a pretty small number, which in turn, I see if the E over on, that E over on, that will be max, E over B equals 2 on, is T of S, yes? That's exactly. So if your G over S at zero becomes infinitely small, it's like 10 to the minus 10, for example. It means that at steady state, no matter how much you try to act your system, your system doesn't listen. So therefore, the error is going to be exactly the reference because you will be saying at zero, and the reference will do something else. So whatever reference you have is going to be almost the same as your error. Any more questions? Okay. So we saw that for larger KAP values, we have larger for smaller errors. And of course, we do that at the expense of smaller space margins and smaller, sort of say, robustness. So for example, if I put different steady state errors here, so in different gains, I will have different errors. For example, for KAP.1, I have 0.75, or you can say 75% error if you want, but the more I increase, I get smaller and smaller. And you can see that for larger KAPs, my open loop, both the plot magnitude starts going upwards. So there, for my crossover frequency, goes parallel to the right. And if I put, no, that's not yet. And if I put, let's say, a step response, we will see it later on, I will observe that for larger gains, I will be going closer and closer to one, which is my reference, but I will be doing it with more oscillations because less robustness because of less space margin. Yeah? So now the question is, okay, but how do I choose the error? How do I choose the KAP? One way to do that is to have in mind some steady state error that you want, like a precision, and then go here and solve with respect to KAP. If this is something like 0.1, and you know, of course, G of 0 because it's your transfer function, then you can solve this equation very easily and calculate KAP. One example question, for example, for three years has been upon. You want to hear what the percentage of students are both correct? Let's be friends today. Good. All right, so one way is that, but this one is going blindly because you don't know what you're doing with your face margins. So a better way is to define some preferable face margin, which is very important when it comes to stability and robustness. Calculate the KAP, calculate the error you have, and if you're not happy, then you can start making compromises. But it's better to do it by a face margin. And how do we do that? Let's say that you have this particular system. This particular, by the way, I would like you to open MATLAB. Have MATLAB at the ready, because I'm going to be asking some questions and I don't want to do the calculations myself. So therefore, if you are open MATLAB, then I will just make it much faster. Also, it would probably be late today just to show you know when it comes to the lecture. So I have this system over there and I want somebody to tell me if this, what order is this system? What's the order of the system? Order number of poles. Yes? Third order. Third order, because we see S to the power of three. Yeah? Okay. Now, is this a stable system? You see the body of thought on the right. Is it a stable system or not? What do you think? What do you think? You say that. Look stable. How can we conclude that? Well, that's on higher frequencies that go down, so it doesn't really make that much of a conclusion, but it's on the right direction of your argument. Just need to look on the other side. What are the low frequencies of my game? It's a flat liner, right? So in open loop, we have steady state. It's steady state means I'm steady, so I'm not exploding. Yes? And of course, if you calculate the poles of the system, you will see that they are like all on the left half plane, so therefore we have stability. Good. And then somebody tells us, design a peak controller, so select a K-P gain, so we can put it in this architecture here, such that I have a phase margin of 60 degrees. Right now we cannot really appreciate what 60 degrees means, but we accept that 60 degrees is a good case to have as phase margin. Next lecture will see exactly why 60 degrees is a ball, but now let's say 60 degrees is some specification that the senior control engineer or group leader say, make this controller and make sure that you have 60 degrees phase margin. So the method, and this is like the baseline of all the methods that we will be using, the method is going to be the following. We will imagine that, I mean, since we have to put gains and stuff, we will not have the same crossover frequency afterwards, make sense. We will increase or decrease the amplitude curves, so we expect to have a different crossover frequency. So we don't know where it is, because that depends on the gain. We say that wherever this crossover frequency is, we know that we will have a phase margin of 60 degrees. Yes? How do we calculate the phase margin? We say that at the new crossover frequency, I will have phase margin 60 degrees. That means that minus 180 degrees plus my phase margin is going to be whatever my transfer function will have at least crossover frequency as a phase. Because if I want to calculate the phase margin, I go, I look at that particular frequency, I'm interested in at the crossover frequency, I calculate how much my transfer function phase is and how much distance I have from 100 minus 180 and the distance, the difference is the phase margin. So therefore, the phase balance equation, as we call it, says that minus 180, that's where we come from, plus the phase margin, this would be the phase of my original system transfer function at the new crossover frequency. Yes? So if I substitute 60 here, then I know, and you know guys, I'm just going to call this guy, Fiji, because I'm very lazy to write all this stuff all the time. So Fiji from now on is the original transfer function phase at the crossover frequency. So from here, I get that Fiji is going to be what? Minus 120 degrees. Yes? Are we following? At the new crossover frequency, wherever this is, if I calculate my phase margin has to be 60, because that's what I ask. So therefore, if my phase margin is 60, my transfer function must have minus 180 degrees, because minus 180, minus 160 degrees, sorry, minus 120, minus 60 degrees gives me the minus 180 where I come from. So the next thing is to go to my body plot of my original transfer function at the phase. Which let's say looks something like that. And this is where I slice minus 180 degrees. And let's say that here is where minus 180, 20 is. And I look at my body plot, and I figure out that this is the new crossover frequency that I have to have. So this guy here is the new crossover frequency. So I calculated from this phase balance equation what my transfer function phase should be at this new crossover frequency. And then I'm just going the other way around. I'm going to my body plot. I find the angle, the phase. And I'm looking, which is the frequency that my transfer function has this phase? And I can do that because if I do other stuff now, if I just multiply with my peak controller, I know that the phase doesn't change. So this would be the same phase locked there before or after the multiplication with my peak controller. So once I found the crossover frequency, then I look, does my transfer function have zero db in that frequency? Well, it certainly doesn't, right? It has something way, way less. So therefore, what I need to do is I need to add as many db I need to make this guy be at zero because if I don't make this guy be at zero db, then that's not the crossover frequency, is it? This is a location I want to have across the frequency, but in order to make it, you have to make sure that the phase, that the amplitude plot is at zero db. And if this was like minus 20 db here, how much db should I put in order to make it zero? Yeah? Just 20. So this guy here was going to be 20 db. It is actually also my kp gain. And I'm done. Obviously, please don't go into your design and put kp equals 20. We don't want it in db. We want it in a real number that would be multiplied, right? Because db is just, we add db, but with again, we just multiply. So if this is my kp in db, right? So let's continue here. So let's say from here, kp is 20 db, or how do I convert from db to a real magnitude? 10 to my db over 20, which is just 10. Yeah? Well, you can also do it in MATLAB if you want, db to mud, but remember also the formula. So what did I do? I had the phase margin specification. I calculated from the phase balance equation what the phase of my transfer function will be at that particular pros over frequency. I found the pros over frequency from the phase body plot. And I measured how much, how many db I miss in order to be at zero db, because that's what it means pros over frequency. And then I just add this db or equivalently multiply in real amplitude, and that will be my p controller. This particular thing here, look, phase balance equation, look stuff, and then calculate gain kp, will be the finishing move of all of our control designs here. The only difference, and we will see today, is that when we put more stuff, we have to modify this balance equation. If we put a PI controller, we need to modify something in the balance equation. If we need a lead part, we need to modify the balance equation. But we will always use a balance equation to find the phase of my transfer function across our frequency, and from there the kp gain. Questions? Is it that clear or you're just in shock? Little bit of a two, I guess. Let's see some examples. So from here again, I go and calculate which phase gives me in the transfer function minus 120 degrees. This is about 0.556. And there I have a bit. Where is it? Does it work? And there I have a little bit too much of amplitude. Here I find that my amplitude at the current nucleus of a frequency is 9.1 degrees, but I want it zero, so therefore I need to reduce. I need to put minus 9.1 degrees. And that just means that I will calculate again, which is not one, it's smaller than one. And that would be my controller. Now that I have my controller, I can actually do calculations, right? I can calculate my closed transfer function. I can calculate my error transfer function. And I can calculate the static error, but just putting s equals to 0. And if I calculate it, I will see that it's like 0.46. And indeed, if I make a plot, a step plot, then I will see that the distance between my steady state value of my transfer function is 0. It has a distance of 0.46 from 1. And then I can play with more gains. And if I play with more gains, then I will see that I have closer and closer distance, smaller and smaller distance from 1. But the closer I try to be at 1 by tuning up the gain, the more calculations I have. And I expect that because I'm getting less and less face-margin. And you can also see if you want, if you do the Nyquist plot, then you will see the larger kp, the closer we go in encircling the minus 1 point, which we'll give us an instability. Yes? All right, let's try another example. And let's do it together, but I also want you to give me some information. So I have a transfer function. And this is 40 over s times s plus 10 squared. What is the order of this system? Third, right? Because we have the s squared in the parenthesis, and then we also have times s. So it's going to be s to the power of 3. What are the poles of this system? Yes? Yes? Do you know why we have the minus 10 and minus 10? Minus 10? Yes, exactly. Right? So we have three poles on top of each other, the minus 10, and then we also have zero. Is this a stable system? It's a marginally stable system because we have one pole on the imaginary axis. Basically, we have a pure integrator. This one over s is just an integrator. Yes? So what is the closed loop transfer function? Oh, no. We skip the most important one. What should kp be? Well, we give the specification that the phase margin should be 60 degrees, like before. We can have chosen another phase margin, 75 or something. So what do we do? We go again and say, at the new crossover frequency, which we haven't found yet, because we need to find from the body block, I will have minus 180 plus 60, which is my phase margin, is equal to the phase of my transfer function. And this is again minus 120 for this particular example. So what I will do is that I will go to my body block. I will block the body of my regional transfer function and look, which is this frequency that gives you minus 120 degrees. And here, more or less, is about 2.68. That's my new crossover frequency, because in that crossover frequency, I will have to, I will have a phase margin of 60 degrees. Now, if I look at the altitude there, at that particular frequency, that's minus 17.1. I wouldn't call it zero. So what do I need to do to make it zero? I need to pump up my plot all the way up until it slices at that particular frequency, so there's zero dB line. So how much, how many dBs I need to add? It's an easy calculation, because always against zero, right? Yes? So around 2.6 dB. It's minus 17, yes. 17, whatever it is with a minus in front, right? 17.1592 dB. And of course, you can just use MATLAB if you want and see what this would be. It's going to be probably, yes. You will calculate it. I don't feel like calculating it now. Yes? It seems like the other way we calculate this by looking at the points of graph, is that any way we can take a transfer function and get the front depth of both of our functions and then I use a field effect type. I mean, calculating the body of the plot is what we're doing. It's just where we use the computer to plot it. Otherwise, of course, you can put a lot of points and then make manually the body plot. Mathematically, if you want to solve for some transfer functions, you might get away with that, but most of them will not, because it's polynomial functions and it's going to be really nasty, so to say, solve which particular frequency. It's going to be higher or whatever, at least the order of the polynomial of your system. And it's much easier to just look at graph. And you can do it, of course, a bit more programmatically, like to program MATLAB to find you exactly the closest point to that angle that you want. Yeah? So, from this, from this 17 point sample DP, we can calculate the KP game. And then, if I have the KP game, I can actually try to convince these to work. I can find, I can have something like 7.21 KP. And after I have that, then, of course, I can calculate my closed-loop transfer function. And the closed-loop transfer function will be what? Forward, branch over 1 plus the loop. And for that particular just peak controller, I always remember the formula. It's like KP over 1 plus KP. I know KPG, sorry. And 1 over 1 plus KPG. And I know KP, so I can already calculate explicitly my closed-loop transfer function. And I can also do the same for the error transfer function. If you want to do that in MATLAB, and probably after some point where the transfer function are a bit more complicated, it's recommended that you do it in MATLAB, so that you don't really try to do calculations by hand on this degree. You can write S equals TF, and then encodes S. And that defines S as a transfer function variable. So MATLAB understands to use the two boxes for transfer function objects. And then from there, you could just write it as simple fractions. For the over S times S plus 10, nothing of per button square over there. And then you could just calculate all the transfer function based on these formulas. For closed-loop and for the error, is it? For the error and for closed-loop here. So, if you write down the transfer function, they look something like that. They are definitely nasty. So already here, I don't know who asked about, yes, you asked about the analytical. So if you wanted to let's say to encode your KP in the closed-loop transfer function, and do calculations from there, or in the open-loop transfer function, you would still start solving equations as the bright equations of fourth and four people. And therefore, it becomes a bit, I mean it's doable, but it's still, yes. So though, in these three-done kilometers. Because they are more pizzas, I guess it takes enough of actually using. But if I could add these two big boxes of Cleveland, then for the two vectors, for the other group. So, this is like the, so there is let's say the purely mathematical way how to do it and the way to do it is the following. You have a transfer function and this is like corresponding to some sort of like complex number parameterized by Omeila. Because S is J omega and the moment you put S equals J omega because by the way the Laplace transform doesn't have that much physical meaning. But if you put the Laplace transform, the person form is the one we use here with the S variable. If you put the S variable is always some sort of like sigma plus J omega right where these are real numbers. If you make the choice to put S equals 0 and consider this omega as a frequency then you already have a full gate transform and this has an physical meaning. So if you do the same thing for your transfer function you will find a big complex complicated number which fractions and stuff that is parameterized by Omeila. Then the amplitude of this guy, let's just write it as J omega, is nothing else than this guy here. And the argument or the phase of this guy is the arch tangent. And those are two functions that we just parameterized by Omeila. Put values in Omeila here and then you will get the body plot of the top body plot and put values in Omeila here from something small all the way to something big. And then you will get the phase plot. But the phase plot, the body plots are also plotted in logarithmic scale. You should remember that. So I have these my transfer functions, I have calculated everything and then of course I can also now make step responses just to see how it reacts like in time domain. And equally you can just, well it's not very straightforward how to go from closed transfer function to time domain because you need to put the inverse plot transform to get the time domain response. But hopefully we have more to do that. And if we do that we can use the step command and this step command will give us a plot that looks like that. Then particular system here we reach already with a peak controller the steady state gain. Did we say that with a peak controller we don't have zero error we have always some left over error. Why do we have zero error in this particular example? Well our peak controller so it's I don't think it's a matter of tuning because the peak controller was had some particular value was like 7.8 or something like that. And we said that here no matter how big k people you would put you always have some error right unless you put k p infinity. So why don't we see any error in this particular system this particular example. Speak your mind. It's all most like spot on it's just that you said the other thing it's not zero it's infinity because j zero if you put the transfer function and you put s equals zero then j of zero is infinity. And that's because we have a pure integrator in the system if you have a pure integrator in the system then even with a k p controller you can have a zero steady state error and we'll see exactly right afterwards how this happens because remember I said with stable systems you will never have zero error with a peak controller but that's a marginal stable system has an extra integrator. So it's not the same category. Together with a step command there is also this step in the command and if you just use this step in the command on the closed loop transfer function you can get a lot of nice information that tells you they overshoot and how fast I'm reaching my final value and all this kind of things so those are useful commands to have questions. Yes. Yes. Yes. So that actually a very nice question. Well if my system is exactly that is the peak controller if I pretend that my system is everything without the integrator and the integrator is just attached to the peak controller then it's not the peak controller anymore. There is also a very specific difference between a PI controller and that guy over there which is just like a because this is like a peak controller kind of within the integrator the PI controller is different we'll see that later. Any more questions? Have we kind of or somehow understood if I'm given a system and a phase margin specification how to produce a peak controller? Yes. All right. So I guess it's time for a small break. Yes. Did you have that question or? Come again. So the steady state error can be calculated by this formula one over one plus k p times g of zero and g of zero is infinity at zero. All right. So decisions were with decisions to be made. You will choose between five and ten minutes but you will also suffer the consequences of potential overshoot afterwards so that's totally so first reply five or ten. Ten minutes it is so over three. Yeah. You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You You We Okay, so where we stand if they give us a transfer function and a phase margin specification, we can design a peak controller for that. Good. We also saw that in general for stable systems, you can't hope to have zero steady state error if you just use a peak controller. But we show an example of a system that had hidden somewhere and in the greater, one over S. And for this case, just the peak controller is more than enough to eliminate the steady state error. So because in general, we would like to have steady state error zero, one would say, why don't you always include an integrator in your peak controller? That's not a very bad idea, right? Let's see if we have, let me, I should make again our benchmark diagram here. So this is your reference, the error, the error goes to your controller, and this goes to your system. And of course the output is fed back here. And we said that we started with a peak controller and then somebody says, why don't you put an integrator? That's our new thing. Okay, if we put an integrator, it would be another one over S in our loop transfer function. And the loop transfer function is the one that we always plot in the bodies to make decisions, right? So what is the body plot of a pure integrator? Remember, always remember, when we want to talk about body plots for transfer functions, poles add minus 90 degrees penalty whenever they hit, and also decrease the amplitude as we move to higher frequencies. And zeros do the other way around. They pump up positive phase plus 90 degrees bonuses for each zero, and they also increase the amplitude from the zero and upwards. So what is the body plot roughly speaking of a pure integrator of one over S? How many poles does it have this one over S? One, where? S equals zero, right? So from starting from S equals zero, and on what we will be seeing a minus 90 degree penalty gradually, and a gradual decrease of the gain. Yes? That's what poles do. But at zero exactly, how much gain do we have? What's the amplitude of one over S at S equals zero? Infinite, right? So at zero frequency, we have infinite gain, and that would help us to kill the steady state errors, by the way. And as we progress, the gain drops and drops and drops. So the body plot of a PI controller looks like that, sorry, don't be accurate, just one over S, an integrator, and it's something like that, where this is minus 90 degrees. We said gradually, why did I start already with minus 90? Because the body plots never show omega equals zero, because it's logarithmic. You have to go infinitely to the left to hit zero. So we say that very early on, the penalty has already happened, and we start with a minus 90 degree, and the gain, somewhere there is infinity, and then it just drops, drops, drops. So what does that mean? If I combine it to my transfer function, the effect of this integrator will take this flat liner and lift it up. Yeah? I will try to add these db's into this plot. You will see that it will lift it up a lot, and then at some point it will just make it fall, because this now removes. And in the face, I will see that I will have some sort of effect like that. I will start with a minus 90 penalty, and then I will actually maintain it this penalty. So although it is true that including a pure integrator in our design helps us with the steady state error, it also introduces a permanent minus 90 degree penalty. And if you're struggling for 60 degrees face margin, having a minus 90 permanently, that doesn't help that much. So what do we do? How can we still use the integrator for what we wanted, and also avoid all these nasty penalties? Yes? Exactly. But how does this work? Adding zero? Yes. What was your idea? We are not guessing. We don't know yet. Just guessing. So many ideas. Adding a zero to the integrator. So having something like zero over s, zero, I mean, s plus something over s, that's what I mean. We'll help. Why? Because at s equals zero, well obviously we cannot put the zero at zero, right? Because then s over s just can't solve everything. So we'll have to put it a bit further afterwards of the poll. So that means that instead of having this blue line as a, as a board the block, we'll have something that starts exactly like that. And wherever the zero is, let's say that the zero is here, right? Then it will start like just becoming a bit normal again. And do do anything. So I introduce, sort of say, some very high infinite gains at s equals zero. But then at some point I just say, you know, well, I don't need these high gains that marks now, because I'm not at steady state. I mean, another frequency. So you can just be relaxed again and don't necessarily put extra gains. And on top of that, I may start here with a penalty, right? But then at some point I will again nullify the penalty and reach against zero. Because the zero that they will put pumps up plus 90 degrees. So minus 90 degrees from my pure integrator. And after some time plus 90 degrees from my zero, the effect in the face just cancels out. And that means that's like a frequency windowing, sort of say, right? So at low frequencies where we heard about the steady state error, that they, this beast be like a pure integrator. And afterwards just cancel all the effects. So you don't suffer the phase permanently. You will suffer the phase penalty at low frequencies, which are far from our crossover frequency, hopefully. And when we start approaching a crossover frequency where we evaluate the phase margin, then the zeros will have worked their way and cancel this minus 90 penalty. So this particular beast here is called the PI. And the PI has a transfer function that looks like a pure integrator here. And then I have another zero, right? And this tough I here, this letter here tough I, it's another way to write where my zero would be. The pole will always be at zero because no matter what you put here, s equal zero is the pole. But the zero will be defined from this value here. Wherever this value, whatever this value is, will shift to the right or even further to the right, my zero. How do I implement that? This is a transfer function. This means that I will have the error entering my box here. For the time being, just forget the KP because we said KP will be always a design that we said before at the end. And it will pass through an integrator. It will be multiplied by this tough I. And then I will take another branch of the error. I will multiply by, sorry, by tough I. And I will add it here. And if I do that, then and worked out my calculations, so to say, then I will have, sorry, this is one. Then I will have a data transfer function. You don't really need to do that. You don't need to implement it in signaling or whatever like that. You just need to implement the transfer function. But just to show you how it looks like. So this transfer function is giving you this element. It gives you an element of a pure integrator, a low frequency, which will help us to eliminate the steady state error. And it will remove all the unnecessary and unwanted effects of this minus 90 degree penalty, sometimes afterwards. Now, the tricky part is like how much afterwards? Where is a good place to put R0? Should we put it here? Should we put it maybe here? Where? And this is one of the most difficult choices we can make in our control design. And most of the times, it would be a little bit iterative. But we have some good cases. So the ideal open loop, bothered block that I want to be seeing just before I adjust my curve with the peak controller, is something that has some infinite gain and then of course moves. So it's something that kind of moves downwards as the frequency increases. And then here, I want something as much as above minus 180 degree for as much as possible. That's what I want. Because this tells me in low frequencies you have infinite gain, so you will kill the steady state error. And then gradually as expected, the gain collapses as frequencies increase. And here, you can afford a lot of frequencies until you start being awfully close to this minus 180 degrees. So you can tolerate some penalties and so on from face, negative pages. So this, when you are done with your controller design and you plot the bottom lot of the open loop transfer function, that's something good to see, empirically at least. And the PI controller helps us because it takes this flat liner here and pushes it up. So it creates this decreasing profile that we want. Are you even closely following to what I'm saying or you're like completely? Completely? Yes? And essentially, this as described here, we have a function that's more in serenity decreases or makes it easier for the steady state to get engaged. But then we have another back so that I guess grows in time with the frequency, but then it ends up that at us we may not start. So here's the thing. The integrator as a nature, so to say, makes steep decreases 20 degrees per decade, right, per decade to freak of order of frequencies. And of course, when you have an integrator, the faster that you are moving, the less the system responds. Because it's almost average, so to say, fast movements. But this is not a problem for us. The problem for us is to make this guy infinite at low frequencies because once we've achieved that, then we can pump up and down with a proportional gain and create the necessary gains to the frequencies we want. So the important thing for skilling the steady state error, which is the purpose to bother to have a PI controller in the first place, is to have infinite frequencies. And this cannot be done by a pole at zero in a loop. Yes, where's the question somewhere? No? So what we will be doing is the following. This was the motivation why I should introduce this guy here. We will be introducing it. Because you introduce it now and this business, not just again, but it also has poles and zeros, it will have a say in the face balance equation as well. So therefore, the artask is to calculate with a new balance, face balance equation, what will be again the face of our transfer function and from where is the exercise from before? How to calculate the gain of the key, the peak controller? All right, so we got a bit of understanding why a PI controller is useful and how, yes? Yes. Yes. Because if it was just a pole at the origin, it would be the blue one, but now that we slumped a zero somewhere here, so the zero increases in the same exact quantity again. You have minus 20 degree per decade, now you have plus 20 degrees per decade, so you have a flat liner. It balances out. Those are logarithmic plots. Yes? So whatever we have as multiplication in logarithm is additions. That's why we say add or subtract. And that's actually a very useful, that's because also one of the reasons why we like the burden plots because then you could just superimpose the plots and figure out how they do how they work. Yeah? Okay, so let's see a little bit how it works. I think I have better plots, actually, if you're going to motivate. So here the blue plot is the pure integrator and the green plot is the PI, so to say, right? So the one first design shows that we have is where to put the zero. How much to the right should be the zero? And if we put it super close here at low frequencies, then we cripple our PI controller very early on. Yes, we have zero cell state error, but wouldn't you want a little bit more extra gain for longer frequencies to have better responses? So we want, but if you put it a bit too much on the right, then the correction of the penalty comes to late. So it comes very close to the phase margin that we may have. So the important parameter to play with is like how much before the new crossover frequency will this zero kick in and correct the phase for us? So here we really want to avoid having this minus 90 degrees penalties at the crossover frequency, because that's the frequency where we evaluate our phase margin and this minus 90 degrees will creep in. So we want to have corrected it quite early on. So one design parameter is how smaller this zero in terms of frequency is located compared to the crossover frequency. So the parameter is a ratio between the new crossover frequency to the night new here over the zero of my PI. And this guy here is nothing else than one over of I. Oftentimes we call this tough I as the time constant of the integrator and as a physical intuition, it relates us to how fast the integrator winds up a lot of power to kill the state error. So shorter TI larger omega I closer more to the right. So I have for more for larger frequencies, I can sustain large gains. Therefore easier and faster kill of the steady state error. So this guy here for this particular lecture and a little bit later on, we will consider it as somebody told us what's a good value for for an I. And I is the ratio of how further behind my zero of my PI is compared to the crossover frequency that I will settle my design on. And you can see, do I have this plot here? I have a little bit later on. You will see that if I start moving, if I start adjusting this parameter smaller or larger, I would be moving closer or farther from my steady from my crossover frequency. And this will give me more aggressive, but a little bit less robust or less aggressive slower, but a bit more robust close loop system in the end. Because we said where I put my zero of the PI is actually the end game for the PI. If I put the zero at this frequency from that frequency and beyond the PI is as if it doesn't exist. Because the phase and the amplitude benefits or penalties are completely cancelled. Are we following? So I have this parameter. So if somebody gives me this parameter and I know the crossover frequency, I can calculate the parameters of my controller. So my controller is completely defined. The only thing we don't know from a PI controller is this type of parameter. Okay, so let's see it a little bit how it works. So N i equals five. That means that my zero of the PI is five times smaller as frequency compared to the new crossover frequency where I need to do all my calculations. Alright, so at the crossover frequency, which is the frequency that we're interested in in respect to stability and so on, what is the net penalty that this PI gives us eventually? And you can calculate it and you can see that if you have chosen N i some number, right, some positive number, then the penalty in the phase that you will get exactly at the crossover frequency is nothing else than minus R. So the contribution. And when we say contribution, we mean penalty. Of PI at the crossover frequency, the new crossover frequency is fi equals minus R tangent. So this is the number of one over N i. And this, remember, this is in radiance when you do the calculation. Remember always to convert it to degrees when we do because when what we read from the bottom of the screen degrees, this gives us radiance, we should not mix those two. So why does that help us? Well, it helps us because we can now calculate the phase balance equation. I want 60 degrees phase margin. What will I do? I will say that at the new crossover frequency, which I don't know why it is, that's more or less the same exercise as the peak controller now, right? At the new crossover frequency, I have minus 180 degrees plus my phase margin is going to be what? What my transfer function phase would be? Plus now the contribution of my PI controller. Because since this PI controller now, let me just correct the shape here, since this PI controller is part of my loop, of course, it always contributes to the phase as well. So from here, I can get that the crossover, the phase at the new crossover frequency of my original transfer function is going to be minus 180 degrees minus the phase margin minus the contribution of my PI controller. And if I have already selected this parameter, NI, which for the time being somebody tells us what this value could be, right? Then we already know exactly the damage at the crossover frequency. And this is the damage here, in degrees. So from here, I'm almost done because then it's the same exact exercise. I'm going to the bottom load finding where I have that particular phase. That's my new crossover frequency. And then I calculate everything with my new crossover frequency. The extra thing we considered for a PI controller design is to remember that now we have an additional transfer function. And therefore we need to adjust the phase balance equation. And when we get to the lead part, it's going to be an extra term. So we haven't said how to do that yet. Well, we said it briefly, but we haven't seen the example. Here, I'm just showing you what a step response of the previous system looks like, and close loop. If I just put the PI controller, we never said how we designed this kind of, just put it there. And you can see that it kills the error. So let's see now what's the effect of this NI factor. Here, you see different variations of the PI controller where I put further and then closer and closer and closer the zero to the new crossover frequency. For NI equals something extremely big 90, you see that it doesn't have that much of a frequency range where my PI operates. Yes, it does kill always the steady state error because in zero frequency has zero infinite gain, but very early on, I'm canceling everything. So therefore I don't have prolonged high gains for large frequencies, but I have quite large phase margin. Because this minus 90 degrees penalty that my PI gives me is canceled very early on is canceled somewhere to 0.0.0.1 radians per second. So very early on, I said, okay, you help me enough, just just go away now. In the second plot, I put something smaller. So I push the zero of my PI closer to the crossover frequency. For a larger frequency range, I have more gain. So I react faster, I kill the steady state faster, I'm more aggressive as a controller, but I also maintain this minus 90 degree penalty for a bit longer. So I'm not that comfortable. If I go even further, then I have even larger gains, but even smaller phase margin because of the prolonged penalty. And if I put it super close, then I'm gambling at that point because I maintain this minus 90 degree almost at the crossover frequency. And this, of course, is something that you need to choose, you need to make a choice as an engineer, you need to select some good starting point for this. And I, and then iterate over your designs to achieve a good compromise between phase margin and how fast your steady state arrow needs to be killed. Questions? We'll see in the example. Are you getting the philosophy? It's okay. We're not that comfortable yet because it's a lot of information. But the whole thing I need you to remember is that I'm throwing extra transfer functions in my open loop. And because this transfer functions have zero and poles. If I place those zeros and poles in a smart way, I can achieve the desired profile. That is a decreasing with infinite gains and zero frequency magnitude and not that bad phase margin. Yes. Place the poles of my controller transfer functions. Because here in my PI controller, I choose where, I don't choose where the pole is because it's always at zero for the PI controller. But I choose where the zero is. And the lead part that we will see right now after it actually has a pole where we can choose where to put it. Let's see an example. So we have a system and we're asked to sort of say, have a particular phase margin. Right. How do we calculate that? Well, we will select an N I. We will find what's the contribution at the phase crossover at the phase contribution at the crossover frequency. And then we will apply the phase balance equation to find the transfer function phase at that crossover frequency. And then afterwards, we just need to calculate what is the gain. So the phase balance equation will be the phase margin minus 180 degrees. And from there, we need to also include this arch tangent one over an I. And remember, either you will make the calculations to radian and then you will convert to degrees to look at the bottom block. Or you will convert from the beginning everything to degrees and work from there. Don't mix radians because the radians is what the formula gives. But degrees is what is on the bottom block. So we should not mix those ones. And those are actually popular multiple choice options for the exam. So remember that. Okay. So if I have calculated the microsover frequency from the bottom block, then I can calculate this guy here. Or equivalently this guy here. And if I calculate this stuff, I or this omega, I then I know everything in my open loop. I know my PI component. I know my system. The only thing to adjust is just the KP gain. And the KP gain. We just put the crossover frequency at zero. And that's exactly what we did for the peak controller case. Mathematically, we have introduced it as the last formula that says that the KP gain is one over whatever magnitude I have in closed loop is sorry, no, in loop at s equals zero at s equals to the crossover frequency. It might be a bit difficult to go and place the particular crossover frequency in the transfer functions and calculate the magnitude and so on. But we have like a very easy command in method that does the job for us. So if you know the crossover frequency and you know the transfer functions of the PI and the system, you can calculate directly there the KP. This last formula is KP equals it's the mathematical expression of the job the job we did before by saying, oh, here in the new crossover frequency, I have minus 70 dB. Let's add 17 to make it zero. That's exactly what we're saying there. So example time. I have a system and that's a very similar system like before what the order of the system. Yes, third because we have s to the power three. Is it a stable or unstable system? Well, you cannot see it from now, but you could if you want to calculate the pulse of the system and you will figure out that it's a stable system. Stable system means that it has a flat liner. So we don't expect to kill the error only with the peak controller. So we'll go with the PI controller. And there somebody tells us that for this design, choose n i equals three. And I equals three, by the way, is a good starting point. We have a table at the end of the lecture for good starting points for that values. So what is the phase contribution of my PI in the new crossover frequency? I'm just going in my formula here, a substitute n i equals three. And I find what's the penalty that I will have to suffer exactly at the new crossover frequency? If I use this PI controller. Yes. And the n i is the ratio between the new crossover frequency and the zero frequency of your PI. Sorry? Yes. So this is like the new crossover frequency. Just have it there so that we don't really mess it with the original system crossover frequency. So then if I have this guy calculated already, I convert it to degrees. And then I apply the phase balance equation and see what's the phase of my transfer function, my system transfer function, at that new crossover frequency. We haven't found the crossover frequency yet. We need to check the bottom floor. So the polls are these ones. The contribution is about minus point three radians or about minus 18 degrees. Right? That were particular n i choice that we had. And therefore, if I apply the phase balance equation, then I will figure out that at the new crossover frequency, my phase on the transfer function, the original transfer function is about minus 101 minus 102 degrees, something like that. Then I go to my body block and I figure out that that that phase you can only have it at the frequency point forty nine and that's your new crossover frequency. Now that you have the new crossover frequency, you can calculate the time constant of the PI from this formula here. And this is found to be six point one. So it takes six point one seconds to start winding up a lot of power the PI controller and kill your steady state error. Now that you have the this stuff I time constant, your PI transfer function is fully defined. And if it's fully defined, you can multiply it by your original transfer function and you have the open loop transfer function, which you can get the body block now. I'm getting the body block of this new transfer function. I look at that new crossover frequency and there I can see it's not one. It's not zero. It's something else. Then I need to adjust with a proportional game, which in this case is point twenty six to make this open loop plot slicing zero exactly at this crossover frequency. And then we're done. So the first step past the cross the phase balance equation is exactly the same as the PI controller. You just need to remember that now in your open loop, you have this extra transfer function here, this ingredient. So when you do this transfer function, calculations remember to include that one. So by the way, these scripts here are given to you also as empty place for the scripts, but I'm also giving you the solution. My recommendation for practice is to go through these three exercises that I have in this on this slide. So without looking at the solution. And then you can look the solutions gradually to see where you're stuck because once you start getting comfortable with solving these type of equations, you basically know how to do control design for the course. Questions. So when you calculate time, right, the cross over frequency is always in the radiance per second. The frequency general, right? So you want a small five minute break to just shake it off and then continue with the last pint of the design or you willing to go head on collision. Five minutes. All right. So let's be back at forty five is. Thank you. Let's get back into it. So we can delay as less as possible. All right. So from our original discussion, we said that if you want to make sure that you were killing steady state error, put it in the greater. And then what you will even with the PI for reformulation, you will still have some penalty in the face. And when we say penalty, we always refer into the new course of our frequency because that's where we calculate the face margin, which is an indicator of our bus. So even though you can modulate how much penalty you will have, you will still have some penalty. Right. And if your original face margin condition or your original face margin situation was not that favorable, adding even just a bit of penalty doesn't make things better. So this motivates us to add another yet component in our closed loop or in an over loop in the controller box whose job is going to be only to help us with respect to the face penalties. Yes. So I have my P controller. There it is. I have my P I part. And then I'm searching for another yet component whose job is going to be only to help me with the face. And if I want help with face, should I put zeros or poles? Zeroes, right? Because zeros right of the butt plus 90 degrees. Well, our probably our safest choice is to say, well, put the zero at the origin, s equal zero at the best thing. Right. You have plus 90 degrees to begin with. No consideration. Yes. Well, in a body plot, when you add a zero somewhere, then you start having a plus 90 degrees effect. That's how it works. If you put the transfer function, and then you add a zero on top of that transfer function and calculate the face, you will see that you can calculate extra 90 degrees at some point. If you put the zero here, for example, you will not see plus 90 degrees here. You will see the face increasing a bit beforehand. And here is going to be around 45 degrees. And then after some time is going to be, after some time is going to be plus 90 degrees. Yes. 90 degrees. 90 degrees is the face. And the face is measured always in degrees and this is an indication of how much face like I have. And it's a big counter intuitive when you're talking about face like to say degrees because we would be more comfortable with seconds, minutes. Because we're going to have a uniform expression over all frequencies. And this is captured if you consider just sinusoidal motions, adding some degrees, some angle in the sinusoidal gives you some face like. That's why it's always negative the face like because it's delayed. So if we put something in our fine controller company here that puts just a zero like that, do you see any problem? I mean my open loop transfer function is Kp times tough IS plus 1 over tough IS times whatever I will put in this box here times my original system. If I put a zero here, what happens? That's one way to see it. But most importantly, just choose the integrator. And then we don't have no business. We put the integrator there for killing the city state there. So we don't want the zero at the origin. We want the zero for certain. But we don't want the zero at the origin where we would put it. Where? Somewhere after the origin somewhere after zero frequency. So our transfer function would be something like some constant types plus one. That would be a good transfer function to have because if that's our transfer function of the new block, then the zero is somewhere here. It's a stable zero and it's not at zero. It's somewhere else. It's in this one over tough D where tough D could be, I don't know, 10 or something like that. So that would be our preferred choice because then we would have some sort of effect of zero taken over some other frequency without actually killing the integrator. But what's the problem with this transfer function now? Remember that these are multiplying the error. Everything that sits in the forward branch multiplies the error. What happens if I have high frequencies? Very large S. What happens in this guy over there? In the amplitude of this guy. It just puts S super large. Yes. It goes to infinity. What is the thing in a physical system that has very, very high frequency? Noise. So that means that even if you have a tiny bit of noise which is super, super, super fast, this guy will make it super large. And we don't want that because noise is just an artifact. It's something that we cannot escape and we need to keep it low. So at high frequencies, we don't want any effect of this guy. How do we cancel the effects of this guy? So recently I had something like that. How do we cancel? I mean, I put the zero. How would I cancel the effects of the zero? I'll put the pole where? Before or after? After, right? So I'm doing my dirty job in pumping up some face close to the cross-over frequency. And then I say, okay, now I don't need any more. So I'm just going to put an extra pole. And this pole will be after my zero. So my zero is going to be at s equals minus 1 over half d. And my pole, so that's zero. And my pole will be at s equals minus 1 over alpha, half d. And if this alpha is much smaller than 1, then this pole is going to be way further into the high frequencies. So what am I doing here? What I'm doing is the case I just delete this guy here. Yes? So what I'm doing is the following. Or you know what? We don't have to do that actually. I'm adding a zero somewhere here. Let's say here. And what I will see from my in the face, I will see that I will have some sort of like, I start from zero. I will have zero, zero, zero. Then I will be pumping up some face. And then after with the pole, I will just take it off. And this nice bump in the face, if I'm smart, I will put it where? After cross-over frequency. Because that's where I have the most need to pump up the face to help the face margin. And what will happen at the amplitude? Well, in the beginning, I will not have anything. Then I will increase the amplitude a bit. And then I will just not do anything again. So that means that at zero frequencies and low frequencies, I don't mess with the amplitude. The PI does its stuff. I will have some extra amplification afterwards, which is not going to be infinite load, going to be contained. Obviously, the tighter I made this guy, so the closer I have the zero in the pole of this new transfer function, the smaller the bump and the smaller the amplification of potential noise. So the new bits that we add here in our controller, and that's the final one, will be what we call the lead part. And has transfer function, tough D times S plus one over alpha tough D S plus one. And just like the NI factor in the PI, alpha is also an engineering decision, which we will consider already somebody that has given that to us. So this alpha parameter is regulating how close are the zero and the pole of this lead part. The zero starts pumping up phases, the pole kicks in at some point and removes this penalty, this bonus. So therefore, the philosophy is that we design our PI controller, we are done with this at the state error, but we have this fi penalty in the crossover frequency. And in order to keep pump up the phase there and help our design with this with this phase margin, we add this small bubble of phase pleasure. So to say. This of course will give us some other negative part, which is just some extra amplification of the noise. But if we are smart enough, we will not be able, we will not have to put that much of amplification to begin with. How do we do the design? Same story as before. Just as the PI controller had the negative penalty contribution to the face to the crossover frequency, well, this guy and that's his job will have a positive contribution. And it turns out that if you have already selected the alpha parameter, here, if you have selected already that and we will say that for most of the cases, we will be given this one. And explicitly calculate beforehand what will be the bonus that you will get in the crossover frequency. So let's recap. I wanted a pure differentiation to begin with the negative stuff of the phase of the PI. I can go with that. I said, what about if you put a zero? That works, but I don't want super high amplification of the noise. So just compromise and put an extra poll. And this transfer function here is the lead part of our PI lead controller. And if you just went with this guy here, then you would have what a pure differential part. So the PID thing that we were talking about, that's the D. So the variation we were talking about from the beginning of the lecture was that you will take this differential part of your PID and just add a low pass filter, which is this transfer function here. So you basically do a filter differentiation when you're doing your PID. And you can integrate everything in this beast that is called the lead part. Questions? Once again, the purpose of the last component of our control design, the lead part, is to pump up the phase around the crossover frequency for us to be more comfortable when we're doing design. Because we said once we finalize the design and the only thing that needs to be selected is again, this will of course have the possibility to move up and down the curve and give us different crossover frequencies and different phase margins. But if we start with already very nasty situation in terms of the phase margin in the original transfer function, we could use some extra help. And this extra help is the lead part that gives us this nice bump positive phase in the around the crossover frequency. And if I only know alpha, this parameter that tells me how close is the zero and the pull of this lead part, then I can calculate what is the contribution in the phase equation. This is this formula there, arcs, sinus, 1 minus over 1 plus alpha, always in radian with the formulas, remember. And I can also figure out what would be the contribution in the amplitude if I needed it. Because of course, the lead part brings you also some extra amplitude. That's the amplification of the noise we were discussing about. So when you do the frequency design in general, you have to remember that the important part is that we don't have to have all the good effects over all the frequency range. We have the good effects where we need them and we have the bad effects where it's not significant for us. So even if we have some extra amplification, it's good if we don't have it at steady state because we're not going to see a lot of chatter in our final response. If I'm moving very fast, if I have a bit of noise, it doesn't really matter. I'm moving already very fast. But if I'm settling at low frequencies, that's where I don't want to see this noise amplification. And by doing this trick, pull and zero, you can do that. Alright, so let's see now how we can make this work. I will calculate the phase balance equation once I'm giving a phase margin specification. And the only difference is now that I will also include the contribution of the lead part. We said that from the beginning. Whenever you have stuff in your loop, they will be affecting your phase at the cross-over frequency. So when you write the phase balance equation, you always need to introduce the contributions from each part. And we will have what? We will have minus 180 degrees. So the phase margin class that has to be equal to the original transfer function phase at the new crossover frequency, the contribution from the PI controller, the arc tangent of one over NI, and the contribution of your lead part, which is this arc scene formula we said before. So from this new balance phase balance equation, again we will find the phase of a transfer function, we will go to the body of the open loop and point the frequency where we have this phase balance equation. And when we have this phase balance equation, we can calculate of course all the ingredients that we need. We have the ingredients for the PI controller, and we have, let's just go one side back, the ingredients of the lead controller, which is this omega m, omega m is the cross-over frequency, one over tough D square root of alpha. So let's try to see an example. So if you want to have a cookbook, so to say slide for the entire design, that's your slide over there. I'm given the phase margin specification, I'm giving given alpha and NI, and from there by applying the phase balance equation, I can find crossover frequency from the crossover frequency with this formula second find the ingredients for the lead and the PI, and then I can finally calculate the P gain. Questions before the final example. All right, transfer function, we need to design a PI lead controller with, with that will give us 60 degrees phase margin, and we are starting with values NI equals three and alpha equals 0.3. All right, so first thing first, we calculate the contributions from the PI, from the PI controller, and from our lead part. And we can do it because we know both NI and alpha. So the PI gives us minus 18, almost degrees penalty, but the phi m, which is the lead part, gives us plus 32 degrees. So therefore, in the new crossover frequency, where before we had to suffer a minus 18 additional penalty, now we have plus 32 to compensate for that. So the next thing is something in the range of plus 15, that was good, right? And from the balance equation, we can calculate that the phase of our region transfer function at the new crossover frequency has to be minus 134. And we go to the bottom lot of our region of transfer function and figure out which frequency gives us that phase, and that is the new crossover frequency. Once we have this new crossover frequency, we can calculate the ingredients for our PI controller and for lead controller, this tough I and this tough D time constants by using this book formula I told you before. And once we have that, we just, what a bit. Once we have that, we have all the things we need to calculate the proportional gain, and that's our final step in our design. Remember, once I have found my ingredients for the PI and the lead, I plug them in the transfer functions, make the combined open loop transfer function that those parts times the g of s, and I evaluate what the altitude is at the crossover frequency. But that amplitude is my pick controller, and I'm done. The rest is just plotting them and see whether I like the result or not. So, if I plot these guys, I have the first dust controller, which doesn't go to one, is just a pick controller, and I expect that I will not go to one. I do go to one, I eliminate the steady state error, but I have a rather large overshoot. At the lead part, which is the blue one, and then you have a far less overshoot and also goes to zero. So, we have achieved what we want. And there is a next set twist, which I will just tease you now, but I will explain it later on in another lecture. If you dare to put the lead part not seriously here, but pull it and pull it in the feedback branch, then you achieve a tad slower performance, but much smoother. And that's the magenta line over there. Don't ask me why, just remember it as a surprise that we saw in the last minutes of the lecture, and we will explain why this happens in the next lecture. So, cookbook recipe. First of all, I am given face margin, N-I-N-Alpha, or I select N-I-N-Alpha using some sort of like good practice or iteratively. Apply the face balance equation after I have found the contributions of each component, and from there, calculate the face of my transfer function at the nucleus of frequency. Go to board the plot and pick that particular frequency that gives you this face that you just found over there. Calculate the ingredients of the PI and the lead part by the formulas, and once you have a massed everything, put them in one single transfer function, and see what's the amplitude at the nucleus of the frequency. When you find this amplitude, one over it is your peak controller, and you're done. Eterate, plot, and sort of say evaluate your result, and reiterate the values, especially the N-I and the alpha, adjusting them to achieve better result. How do we choose them? I have this lookup table, which is not like a gospel or something, it's like a good practice. For a face margin, we could start with 60 degrees, and if we can pump a bit more face margin without any loss of design, then good, they're more the better. N-I typically between 2 and 10, start with 3, and iterate, and alpha has to be smaller than 1, positive, but smaller than 1, typically at the range of 0.01 to 0.1, something like that. Those are just like, you know, engineering good practices. There's not proof for that. Questions? I suspect that even if you had questions, you really want to get the hell out of here now, so nobody asks. All right. I understand it's a heavy lecture, it's the most important lecture, it's the thing that you will be visiting again and again. The more practice you do, especially running the examples on your own, they're better for you. What we will have today, as an exercise, is the position control of the red book. We have a transfer function from voltage to velocity. We need to add something to this transfer function to make it from voltage to position, and then is the PIL design. We discussed. More questions? Next time, we will do the same thing, but instead of saying I want it. You