 times, if I have any time. The idea of tautish is 0 for the time. Then the other group will try to encircle the 0.0 here. At least one time. In the same time, in the top right. So let's see. I have a closer function. Take points over the curve clockwise. And put them in the browser function. I'll get again complex numbers. And you have a block that moves the numbers again in the same direction. I'll have another type of flow curve. And if I get a chance in the original curve, I have to use this 0. Then I will insert the origin. So I have to put out as you make actual flow. If I back to the phone, let's make it out of the phone. If I have to unfold here, let's say. Now, I'm not considering this one. I have to do it. Just you can step down on it. If I have a phone, then what I will see is that I'm just a small circle of insertion and again. But now the insertion would be 100.5. Although I'm moving always from where I begin, I'm looking for the position of 5. If I have to add 0, I would insert the origin to a 5. If I have to unfold, I would insert the origin to 100.5. What happens if I have to fold one foot in one j? Just yet. Yeah, I will not go up. I will not consider the origin. What will probably likely happen is that I've been trying to fold the insertion to 100.5 or 100.5, whichever is first. And then I will just the other repellent. So I might do something like something like that. I will go here and notice. Look. And of course, needless to say, if I have to do something like this, if I have four letters of inserted, four times, you have three zeros and two fourths, I would insert them in 21. And there is an end of insertion. Of the particular form, the origin of the origin. Depending on how many fourths and zeros I have optioned inside my original curve. The other ring of the bell still I would use. But if I have to do this quite soon, right? So if you have the transfer function that if you open the loop, you will have a little load, and what does that mean? What would you want by looking at the insertion? You know, insertion means can tell us all the zeros. What would you look for your load? What's the most important? First of all, yeah. Yeah. This is for the... Right, the thing is like that. Again, you're a nice slope. And in certain swans, the origin, what would you like? What would you want to study? Would you like to study whether you have to force or whether you have to zero program? The follows, the follows are the most important for stability, right? And between four, not just anything. Follows that they leave on the right side, right? That's the last one. So I wanted to induce what like this to be, to have drawn this curve somewhere here on the right path lane, and having been able to capture the potential hole there, and then I should see. So if somebody told me, your original curve is on the right path lane, this guy is on the right path lane. And then I will see how much, how much...