 f of x and you know how it looks like. Let's say it's a parabola. You know how to plot. Tangential plot. You don't calculate anything again. This guy here. So if this guy, if y, if this is y equals f of x, and you plot y equals f of x equals one. To the left, right? Don't be fooled by the last one. It goes opposite direction. So I'm just gonna do this. And this shape is gonna be one. Easy peasy. And if it was in the y, you would go up and down. Yes, all right. So let's see now what we're plotting here. Let me do an hyper support to separate the transfer function into real and imaginary function. But if you want one, then we just shift the x thingy by one. So if I wanted to check where this flow and circles the origin, it is the same thing if I check where my open transfer function takes the circle this minus one point. Because I just shifted my plot by one to the left. Look what I did. So, to repeat, the Nyquist diagram, it is a diagram where I pick all the points everywhere around the right half plane, imagine it as a big box, thinking in that direction. So, I pick all around, pass all these points to my cross-conference, the open transfer function, and check whether there is a clockwise direct encirclement of minus one. Because that means there is a clockwise encirclement of both, that means that there is a zero of both on the right half plane. That means that my two cross-conference are there, all of the right half plane. And that's all. And I can add it. Great. I've made some blocks that you can also run them. I just give a goal function, and then I have just a generic, where I put zeros and poles there to see how the encirclement works. Then, you can say that, for example, so here you can see that I'm inserting two poles in one zero, so it works twice, but then last minute, the zero prevents it, and then it's just a graph, don't graph one in the clockwise direction. Sorry, the counterclockwise direction, which will become more polar to the right. So, every zero gives me a lot of work clockwise encirclement, every pole gives me counterclockwise encirclement, and if I want to do stuff for stability, I need to check the whole function, one plus the goal. And to do even less job, I would check the goal, the whole function, but only with inserting the minus one point, because I've shifted everything to the left by one unit, because of this one stop. How now is the rule as a group, how we can apply? I give you an open loop transfer function, and just for your record, that's just a bit of a spoiler for the next record. The open loop that we will be checking will be our original system, all the controller components that we have thrown out, and we will just leave the proportional gain, the final gain at the next point, and we will be doing bonded blocks and dyed blocks, and then we will start adjusting stuff to achieve our design, phase, market, so that's the field we're taking out. So, let's see how we do it. I will get an open loop transfer function, everything except for the proportional gain. I will make an output flow of that, with the math lab since I was one, and I will check the total number of clockwise encirclements of the minus one point, minus one comma zero. The rules say that the number of total unstable closing-tab loop system, it is equal to the number of encirclements, clockwise, the total number of encirclements, plus whatever unstable force you have in the open loop system. Needless to say, if you see a clockwise encirclement on your right side, whether the open loop has unstable or not stable, you get the thing, because you already have an encirclement. If you don't have encirclements, you cannot see from the right-click, you can see from the left-click. And the natural question would be, in what kind of hand should I just care about the 90 degree peak, if I see it as it's done? Over to this one, you know, the paper is not stable. How many encirclements do I have? Two, right? I go one, if it goes to the left one, she will go to the left. Two unstable force at least in a double loop system. So the question is, if I really have some sort of like information that tells me about instability, how can I use the 90 degree? Just to determine that I have unstable stuff. What do you think? Think of what we did with the border wall, with shifting the terms up and down. I mean, obviously, if I start messing up with components of my open loop, then maybe other problems, I change the shape. And if, for example, methods to avoid the encirclement, that's a good sign. By pulling the 90 degrees, a bit to the left, make it smaller, and so on. Here, for example, just to see what I'm talking about. You have the loop, like this, the loop function, and the other one. By the way, the nitrous has a diagram, it is always symmetric in the horizontal line, always. Right? And for this reason, we tend to only draw half of it. In MATLAB, it draws average, but in the closed, usually we draw half of it. You can get all the encirclement information from that. So I have this nitrous block, the blue one, that goes, start at some point, we'll see what these points are out there, draw the analysis of the loop, the three pieces of the photo block. And then it goes past the yellow line, the yellow block over there, which is the minus one point. And the circle is the unit circle that tells us the size of a point within MATLAB. So this cross-referential, doesn't have any open loop unstable. So in this formula, this is unstable balls of TOL. This is block-wise encirclement. And this is unstable balls of this yellow. So in this particular one, we don't have any unstable. And how many encirclement do we have? Let's look at that. Of minus one. How many? Okay. So this is the encirclement. How many? We search it. All right, let's do it fast. So zero. So the number of unstable balls in your closed loop is typically closed to the pw1, pw2, p0. Good. How about the other one? We don't have any unstable balls. But how many encirclement do we have? How many? I mean, if you, if you are confused with this diagram, just do the symmetric theory. It goes something like that. And if I do the symmetric, it will be something like that. Some. Maybe. Maybe a little bit more. How many encirclement do we have? One, right? So this guy, one. This is not five. One. This is zero, but we already have one unstable ball, so we're messed up. So this tells us that if your design of your open loop with all your controllers ended up having this practice, don't really close down, because you're gonna be unsafe. Question? Yes. Yeah, I have a question. I'm confused with your grade. What was the term for the, I know, in the end, there was still encirclement. Like, there was encirclement. I don't know how that. From this diagram over there, you can see that the first one has some profile like that. Something like that. And if you just plot the symmetric, it is something like that. So going this way, you've never encircled the minus one ball. Never encircled. Just outside. Yes? Okay. But this one, because it starts a bit further out, it does, it reaches like here, then it just takes the symmetric, it clears and see that it encircled. The symmetric, we don't plug it because we are lazy at all. It's not that easy. We don't need it. And in math lab, in when you put the nitrous to one, it just throws things away. It's a theory. So if I ended up, if I have a nitrous plot, that does not encircle, and this is a little bit more advanced, you see it in lecture 10. It's just that the people, if you have a nitrous plot, that does not encircle the order. Hello? But you know that there is unstable plot. So you know that P equals one. And here is zero. You don't encircle the whole. You're still messed up, right? Because you have one unstable plot. You can't avoid it. But you could do one thing. You could manipulate your drunken function, which is not the easiest thing to do that. You encircle the origin, the minus one bonus point, but in the counterclockwise direction. Because this will give you N minus one. So the next sum is zero. And this is one of the ways that the nitrous plot can be used to help us understand how we can stabilize an unstable plot. We'll see that later on, just to understand why this diagram is very far. And if you somehow solve that there are counterclockwise encirclements, this is minus one, minus two, minus three. Only the clockwise encirclements are there. None. You want maybe a five minute break just to shake it off and then convene, but it's only five minutes, if you please. What's the consensus? Who says break? Hans. You need to hold her up. Okay. If you break down the next thing, except that you don't have this time to find it. Yep. Right. So, okay. We got it. Nitrous, super important, encirclement, stability, we're gonna get it. So, next thing now, can we get more or less same information or similar information? The water plot. Water plot would just barely go to understand it well. Right? Changing it to something else or putting something else has to have at least the argument that it brings the same information. So, I have plot, the nitrous plot, again, after two days, when actually the water plot, I see more or less the same plot. Why? First of all, when I start my nitrous plot, I always start at the very right. My curve starts always at the very right. And it starts at the horizontal axis. And that particular far away point is the zero frequency, omega equals zero. And then I move clockwise. Why? Because we agreed that everything will start clockwise. Here, so therefore, clockwise, at least we need to begin the nitrous plot. You should think that the nitrous plot just gives you the flow of the transfer function itself as a complex number. So, if I wanted, if I wanted, let's say, this flow right here, this is zero. And let's say that I tell you that this particular point is some frequency, shall we say, corresponding to 0.1 radians per second. Let's say that's completely wrong. Because here is zero, and then if I move one, I just increase frequency, right? What would be my magnitude? How could I get my magnitude? Complex number is just a vector. If I plot the vector, what is its magnitude? Exactly. So, this guy here is nothing else than my transfer function on that particular frequency. The side of the normal distance. And if my transfer function at this particular frequency, so if g of 0.1k is completely wrong, let's say 2 minus 1k, the norm of this 2 minus 1k, g squared over 5, it's exactly the magnitude in this particular frequency. And if I put it in dp, it's exactly what my body would. What about the angle of the face? Well, that's easy. It's at this angle here. So, looking at the nitrous, I can make some, not enough flow, but I don't want to plot everything by hand. I can look and check the information that I can get from a stable body plot. Because it's not stable plot at all. And on top of that, I can see unstable plot. So, nitrous is a bit more informative in terms of how many types of system I can study. Are we calling it? And obviously, we will measure in the opposite direction of the angle, because we have agreed that the angle gives us flat information. So it always has to be negative, right? Even if you check at the bottom plot, it's never above zero. If you start from zero, let me show you an example. Let me see more. We can see more now. If the crossover frequency is the frequency where I have the magnitude one, then I just need to go to my terrible right here and see where in which frequency I have the magnitude one. And then I can see the frequency where I have the magnitude one. So, I can see the frequency and see where in which frequency around where this bar is equal to one. And the easiest way to do that is to throw a circle. No, it's a very messy plot. I'll just consider this one for now. You can see the plot, right? I will just draw a circle, which has the radius one. And the point that people see where I first slice this circle is where I have magnitude one. And that's my cross-propagation. So, this here is your meta state. Obviously, when you see the plot, you don't see any coordinate of the frequency. But if you click on the map, let's say on that particular point, it also shows you the frequency. But you knew the frequency to make up. So, to find the crossover frequency on the niter's plot, I draw a unit circle. And the first time that my curve sliced the unit circle is the cross-propagation. And obviously, the omega-3 frequency here is what's going to be there. If you're not going to change here. This is the input that's going to be double. So, what you start from here, you do something like that. Let's say that the minus comes from here. So, the point where I slice the horizontal axis is where I plot line, plot angle, here to here. And that's the minus, minus angle. So, that particular point here is where my omega-3 frequency is going to be. So, this is the point where I slice the horizontal axis. Omega-3 frequency is the same. So, to recap, my risk is actually giving us the same information as the other plot for table system. And it gives us additional information about unstable systems, which can figure out how many encirclements we have on the plot-wise direction. So, that's the point. By the way, if somebody is really capable mathematically to see why did we use this rule of encirclements, this goes by the argument of angles and function shapes. It was really, if you're a bit comfortable with complex analysis and line integral, it's a very easy proof just to start. You don't have any proof and figure out why does this thing happen that the poles give you one encirclement and the zero gives you another. Argument of the angle. What else do we see on the other side? I'm just looking at the other side. Yeah. It's not hard. We'll do it again. And then I think you could not see like that what the thing is. You need to know the non-trapuncture and then you need to see, okay, which frequency gives me this particular complex under the complex, say, this two-minus thing. And it's a more difficult task. But if you do it mathematically, you can figure out the point, you will solve the frequency. But what other things can help from the time that we see in the both of them? Just have a look at the left. Again, margin and the phase margin also have. Again, at zero frequency is a very safe game. It's fine to see like that. For this transfer function here, it's the same here. That's your steady state thing. That's the amplitude at zero frequency. But you can also see gain margin and phase margin. The phase margin is extremely ridiculous about state. Because let's say that the unit circle is. Let's say that the unit circle is. Let's say that your unit circle is like this guy here. Okay, it's something like that. I'll put my, this here. This is my meta, see? And I have an angle that looks like that. So the phase margin is just this angle here. Whatever I want to do, they go to the minus 180. So this angle is the phase margin. And now I measure it in the same way. I calculate the phase here, and I subtract the minus 180. By the way, we all know how to calculate the phase of a complex number. Who doesn't know, and I expect them to predict it. I want to see now. Who doesn't know how to calculate the phase of a complex number? Or the example. So their phase of a complex number, which is alpha plus theta, is the art engine of. The imaginary over real theta art engine. And the alpha here. Yes, so I click on the point. I see two minus one day. Art engine for the phase. And alpha for the art engine. You have a mixture in your basis of all this creation. One, I have a new life, and I want my mom. Do you really want to break, or is it okay? All right. Any questions? Yeah. Talk about the phase model. How do we get in mind? Do you remember what the gain model is? Rafa speaking. What is it? Yes. Yeah, Rafa says he's just, how are they, as he's just saying out of what he would have without the standard system. Fair, fair, right. So here's the thing now. The gain margin is coupling the equation, gain equals one, but how much it equals one, and phase equals minus 180 degrees. This happens at that particular point here. This is not the point, that's what happens. I slide the circle and I have minus 180 degrees. Now, my curve is nine because I'm not there, I'm here, not there. And I'm not there. Well, wait now, if you want to start. That was the minus one point, the unit circle must pass from that point to my boundary. So right now I'm here, I'm slashing my curve, the lag is here, so I'm pretty good. I am at minus 180 degrees, but I don't have gains that much. What do you think would happen if I multiply the number larger than one? Yes. It will move closer and not just move, it will just expand. So I'm multiplying both my X and the Y in the same one, the same number. So multiplying a nice, larger number by one, it just expands, and multiplying it with smaller number, it expands, just expands. So I can multiply many times until I have something like that, or like that, or like that. And if I multiply with the correct number, I just sit on top of the minus one point, and I have one, and I have space minus one. That's exactly the marginal stability of the curve. So if you were slicing, that's what it would mean. If you were slicing, if this is a minus one point, and you were slicing here, let's say that this is minus one point five, that's the cross-referencing. How much should we multiply to get a minus one? By two, right? So this one's two, which is five, which one over, which is five, which one over, the distance. If it was, let's say, point one, if it was here, what should I multiply to get? How much? By 10, right? So here, this guy, one, one over, point one. So the gain margin is nothing else than check the distance from the zero along the horizontal axis, the way you slice it. Don't take into consideration the sign, and the vertical. That's the very big margin. So, face margin, the angle from where I'm slicing the unit circle all the way to the minus one, and then you can increase that. Gain margin, the distance from here to where I slice it, horizontal axis, just the inverse of that. And with this, you can take exactly the same information you get on the vertical in the state of the system. And then, that's how you have all the points. So in this example here, in the blue curve, I sliced the unit circle at this point, omega C, which is my constant of frequency, and this corresponds to the complex number 4968-49. 248 J. And therefore, I can calculate the angle of this guy by this R-tangent formula. And then I'm gonna figure out that it is, if I remove it from a 100 degree, then I will figure out that I have a phase margin of 14 point something, which is very low by the way, very low. And if I calculate the gain margin, and I slice that horizontal axis, the minus point 45, and then I just invert this guy, an option value, and I get my gain. So we have a lot of gain in the blue, the phase is not really high. And we can do something else for the other one. The other one, it is already encircling. So if it's already encircling, it's already unstable, that means that the pressure of your frequency is way up, the omega frequency. So we've lost the gain, or maybe not. If we multiply by some small number, and what's that small number? Actually, gain margin, then we will form a string, our transfer function, to be further beyond the right one. And these are like some small tricks that you can do to stabilize and stabilize it. In other words, here you can play with nitrous, or simple control of design, to be able not to just see what's going on, but also to stabilize unstable. If I multiply by larger positive numbers, the one I expand, if I multiply by smaller numbers, I expand. And if I multiply by negative numbers, it does the, because it does multiply both my x and my y, so there is a matter in the first one. Okay. We're done. Okay. No more.